---
layout: post
title:  "Dornoch 2016"
date:   2016-08-06
excerpt: "Taking advantage of a break in party planning to find some sounds."
project: true
tag:
- Dornoch 
- Field Recording
- blog
- Phonography
comments: false
---

## Friday

<p style="text-align: justify;">So me and my good wife stayed over at Home Farm last night. The reasoning behind this became apparent when we woke at 0445 to catch a train from York at 0730.</p>
<p style="text-align: justify;">What was the insane logic behind this idea and more importantly what was the destination?</p>
<p style="text-align: justify;">Well the mode of transport was train to Inverness and then by car to a small sea side village in the highlands called Dornoch. We have a Gran who lives there who we affectionately call granny Dornoch (obvs) and she has reached a milestone birthday.</p>
[google_map_easy id="1"]
<p style="text-align: justify;">The whole family are decending on Dornoch for a weekend of cake and a sensible amount of tea. My immediate family are planning on a hike on Saturday but I aim for a day of field recordings. It is quarter to 11 and I am in the town I visited every year since I was born. It is probably one the of the few geographical constants I have in my life. Bliss. What makes it better is that it is still reasonably light outside.</p>

## Monday

<p style="text-align: justify;">Well, I have made it home - we (Kathryn &amp; myself) returned to Yorkshire on Monday evening. Knackered. I managed to sleep most of the journey but Kathryn was coming down with a heavy cold - plenty of Lemsip Capsules were purchased at Edinburgh Waverley Station and then it was down to York to catch the train to Harrogate.</p>
[google_map_easy id="4"]
<p style="text-align: justify;">Granny really enjoyed her birthday - she is a lady who does not like a fuss so was a bit apprehensive about the day. However, by the time she showed up to the restaurant she was enjoying herself. She looked a vision in a red skirt-suit.</p>
<p style="text-align: justify;">For me, most of the day was a blur - I managed to get to my medication and have a shower in the morning but I did not get any sleep. I spent the day running on vapors and double espressos. I hope I did not make an exhibition of myself.</p>
<p style="text-align: justify;">It really was great to catch up with the Scottish side of my family. I wrote in our card "Many Happy Returns On Your Birthday, Granny" - to which she replied "I doubt there will be many of those".</p>
<p style="text-align: justify;">There were a fair few people taking photos of the occasion so I asked if I could have a copy of their photos so I can have a go at putting them in a book for Granny. Out of respect for privacy, I will not put any photos up here on the blog.</p>
<p style="text-align: justify;">I managed to edit the field recordings that I took on Saturday morning - I have to say it is one of my better works. The album sees the light of day on Focused Silence (<a href="http://focusedsilence.com/field-recording/andy-backhouse-dornoch-072016/">link here</a>). Field recording was compared to Bus Spotting at the family meal - I had to put my cousin firmly in his place by saying that Field Recording is far more of a nerd's pastime. My personal highlight of the album is the track below. I managed to attach my clip on microphones to the stems of Marram Grass that grow on the dunes of Dornoch beach. The result is that you can hear the grass sway as well as hear the sounds of the beach - check it out below.</p>
<iframe src="https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=https%3A//api.soundcloud.com/tracks/276567043&amp;auto_play=false&amp;hide_related=false&amp;show_comments=true&amp;show_user=true&amp;show_reposts=false&amp;visual=true" width="100%" height="450" frameborder="no" scrolling="no"></iframe>
<p style="text-align: justify;">I will be spending the day editing some of my photos for the book and trying to catch up on sleep. Kathryn's cold seems to be abating but I am on hand to pop to the supermarket for more chicken soup.</p>


